Draft for a bitcoin party

This should be an informal event for everyone from experts, VCs to total novices and crypto illiterate.
Smaller groups in different corners of the room or in different rooms of the venue should be used to concentrate on different
topics rather than a frontal beamer-school like model. It doenst mean that a beamer cant be used for some explaining or maybe
at the introduction but this should never be the main way to explain things. We should concentrate on learning by doing and trying
only to explain theory as we go on with the practical steps. For an “outsider” it is typically easier to understand when you have
it in your hand and then talk about it as to listen someone talk about it in theory. Ok lets get down to it..

What you need:
Laptop with QT and Multibit
SECURE wifi
Android device
People

After a short introduction the first step would be to divide up into smaller groups.
For example:
1. Total newbie, no practical contact with bitcoin and/or never really has heard of it. Never downloaded a wallet and has never done a transaction.
Question: Who wants to learn how to use bitcoin?

2.  Beginner, has a wallet (even if it is online) and maybe has visited some faucets, friend sent him some bitcoin ect.
Question: Who has some experience with bitcoin and wants to learn more about: different clients, cold storage, multisig?

3. User, has bitcoin qt or another full client. Has done some transactions ect
These people could help others
Question: Who is comfortable showing people how to download a client and how to do a transaction?

4. Whoever wants to form another group to discuss X is welcome to form there other group

– Everyone is free to walk around and visit other groups, ask questions and join in–

Ok, now lets talk about what do to in each small group
yea we are going to use windows for now, linux adaptation almost requires its own “party”

-Download Multibit to PC or USB stick

Although this is not the full client I do not see an alternative ATM. Otherwise everyone would have to download the whole blockchain which can
take a while. ((*The “teacher” or “guide” does need to have QT ready to go to show it later.))

Downloading and installing multibit needs to be done step for step as if you were holding someone´s hand. You can guide
people to the download page and if anyone has trouble then go around and help them find their download folder ect.

-Next would be showing people how to get to there “app data” folder which is hidden in windows (can be skipped when downloading directly to a usb stick)

Show and explain these steps
For now a public address can be a “account number” and the private address the “PIN” or if you have another analogy then go for it.

Slowly show these steps, offer to answer theoretical questions at the end, many questions are answered after theses
steps are completed: “Ahh!” effect.

-Show the public address
-Show where the private address is located
-Disconnect from internet
-Generate a new address
-Password protect the address
-Connect to internet

Now we need to send the users some bitcoin form our party stash. Or they could even buy some from us.
People can email, tweet their public address.
BAAM they have some bitcoin!

Now lets check out the block chain!

-Send users to blockchain.info
-Tell them to enter their public address to trace the transaction
-Remind them that this is in the blockchain FOREVER
(this often produces an AHHHH!)

Ok, maybe in the meantime the transactions have been confirmed.

Now have everyone create an account at blockchain.info
We are going to have to explain some basics about 2FA and security (not sure the best vs. quickest way to explain this)
MAYBE recommend just using the blockchain.info email 2FA first, without getting into QR code 2FA google Auth ect. (that can be in the second group, they can visit that group
when they are finished with this one)

Now they should send bitcoin to themselves! From the multibit client to the blockchain.info wallet!
Probably you will have to guide them a little bit but blockchain.info is pretty good for newbies.

Now if anyone has an android device then they can download mecyluim or the blockchain.info app and do another transaction
with you or someone in the group.

Now you have more time for questions
The safety of the private keys needs to be talked about again

After this “lesson” people should be able to do bitcoin transactions and trace them on the blockchain  using blockchain.info
Suggest that they download QT at home and send QT some bitcoin from their blockchain.info wallet ect.

–
Now we can “role play” a P2P transaction fiat-btc
This is important to show that we do not -need- exchanges or third parties for bitcoin to work.
Demonstrate a friendly P2P transaction between two people that know each other

–below this line needs to be developed more before being included imho–
-
This can be connected with how to use localbitcois.com & use of localbitcoins escrow

I also think we need to develop a kind of protocol for P2P transactions without using localbitcoins escrow
Who gets what first? Coins or Fiat in hand?
Agreement on how many confirmations
Buyer needs to bring QR code
Public meeting place

Issues I see:
Counterfeit fiat
Man in the middle attack
Use of insecure wifi

—!!!—
To empower people we need to show them how they can use a wallet, track transactions and do p2p transactions without a third party
Those are the three goals. I think we need a different group for cold storage.
—!!!—

Group 2
Group 2 can talk about cold storage, 2FA, Multisig
-Explain safety issues while generating private keys for paper wallets
-Encrypted paper wallets vs. unencrypted
-Demonstrate
Either you need a secure computer and a printer, piper, or premade paper wallets (however people shouldn’t trust premade wallets for large amounts,
only for testing)

More advanced
-Armory total offline
-Trezor

-coinjoin
-mixers

–
The amount of groups also depends on the number of “guides” ,but since it is open to all levels then there could
be people that come to the event that help out new people and also contribute to the more advanced discussions and groups

The party can also have some quiet(so you can speak over it easily) music in the background to create the “party” atmosphere to loosen things up.
There should also be drinks available, perhaps the venue would host the event for free and people could support the venue by buying a few drinks.

There could also be some “games” that could typically be played at a bitcoin party such as the “fiat leak drinking game” “blockchain lotto”
Or people can “flirt” or “get married” using armory.
Maybe someone can develop a card game or something easy and fun that uses the concepts of the blockchain.
Other expansions could include DJs, live acts, or crypto stand up at the end of the “work” part of the party.

There also needs to be a kids program but this needs a separate brainstorming

Please comment with suggestions and edits,  feel free to copy and use

-Theo